# September 23, 2020
I knew that for my game, I wanted to create something that was continuously enjoyable to play. I wanted to create a game that got sufficiently challenging without ever reaching the point of being impossible.
With that goal in mind, when brainstorming ideas for games, I focused primarily on finding a thrilling and interesting mechanic.
I ended up settling on two major ideas:

The first idea is a turn-based game where the move the player chooses only happens 2-3 turns in the future. 
This is definitely a more strategy oriented game, with enemies coming in fixed, repeating patterns that the player must predict.
I thought of adding special features like a timeline to help players keep track of what will happen next, along with what has happened in the past.
Although I liked this concept, I kept coming back to my second idea...

My second idea is where the player plays as a samurai named Butterfingers. You must run around the side-scrolling arena-style map, slicing enemies with your katana, but here's the catch.
Everytime you swing your sword, you can't grip it tight enough and it flies away and becomes a bouncing projectile that can hurt the player or one of the enemies. You get a new sword everytime, but the more you swing your sword, the more deadly projectiles you create.
My vision for this game is for it to evolve into a bullet-hell style of game as the player continues to kill enemies and increase their score.

I can't stop thinking about my samurai sword game, so I have decided that that is the idea I am going to pursue further. My biggest challenge when creating this game is going to be play-testing enough to achieve the right level of balance between skill and challenge.

# September 28, 2020
With my samurai game, I want the conflict to come in part from the enemies, but more so the conflict is generated by the player themselves.
By having the game get more difficult each time the player swings their sword, I am using just one rule/procedure to exponentially increase the difficulty.
I think I will keep the objective of my game simple, try to get the highest score. IF possible I would like to make it so that there is a universal high score list that anyone playing this game can see. 
I do not know how feasible this is, but that is my ideal because there's nbo better incentive to try harder than seeing someone beat your score.

To expand upon the simple sword bouncing mechanic further, I wanted to create different types of enemies that take different amounts of hits to kill.
I was thinking that a bouncing sword would hurt an enemy if it bounced into the back on an enemy, but if it bounces into them face on, then they catch it and level up as an enemy.
This makes the game significantly more challenging because both the player movement and sword bouncing is random, so it's risky to have too many bouncing swords because you can make some enemies that are really hard to kill.
I had also thought about adding a small delay after you swing your sword, like a second, to stop players from spamming, and also to reinforce the theme of samurais and "making each strike count."

The game will be a 2D-side scrolling view but the map will be very small, maybe an arena the length of two screens in total? 
The player will only be able to move around and swing their sword, although another mechanic I thought about adding was a directional shield that could be used to add more skill to the game. 
I had thought about making enemies that can shoot, although I would make the projectiles slow and have it so that enemies can accidentally shoot themselves too.
These are all extra things that can be added on to refine the game.
At its core, this game will be about having the proper timing and strategy for when to swing your sword and strike down the approaching wave of enemies, emulating the cool experience of being a samurai!

My game will have a gameplay experience that is a similar mix to Super Crate Box and Nidhogg.
Both of these games are high-octane, action filled games with an emphasis on the skill of the player.
In Super Crate Box, the enemies are designed to be easy to kill but there's so many that you can easily be swarmed.
In Nidhogg, there is precision to your hits, and your inputs have to be timed well to dodge the projectiles and the enemy coming at you.
The combination of these two features is something along the lines of what I hope to achieve with my game, whose title is still to be determined.   

 # October 7, 2020
 After having a classmate test my game, I got a lot of great feedback about what I could improve. 
 Mainly, in its current state, the game doesn't feel very challenging. The enemies die quickly and aren't too much of a threat to the player.
 I had originally planned on making this game similar to others in the sense that killing different enemies would award more points, and that the player would have 3 lives to achieve a high score. 
 However, with the current lack of challenge for the player, I'm planning on dropping the player down to only one or two lives, to really increase the need to stay alive. 
 This would make the game frustrating to pick up at the start because a new player would inevitably die within the first couple moves, but it would reward continued gameplay with a focus on perfecting the mechanics of the game.
 To help emphasize this, enemy spawn rates will also increase with score, capping at a certain point so that the game does not become too overwhelmingly difficult. 
 
 Currently, the sword launches out directly when the space bar is pressed, and the player does not swing the sword prior.
 I had originally tried to tackle this code with animating the sprite during the swinging motion, but eventually decided to focus my time on other aspects of the game. 
 My next big step is to implement that sword swinging mechanic. It would allow the player to kill multiple ninjas at once, and it would justify the launch of the sword at the end. 
 Once that is complete, I will focus on enemy interactions with the bouncing sword, including leveling up enemies when they catch the sword, and awarding increased points for the sword hitting them in the back.
 
 To further push the idea that this game is only as challenging as the player makes it, I was planning on adding combo multipliers to the score. 
 My classmate had the brilliant suggestion of increasing the points awarded based on how many swords are currently on the screen, and I love that idea and will implement it.
 To prevent players from quickly spamming the sword button to rack up points, I also will add a cooldown between swings, so that players are penalized for not swinging at the most appropriate times. 
 These extra additions to the gameplay will hopefully give this game that satisfying, rewarding experience when the player beats their old high score, and while I still have a lot more work to do to get to that point, I am very excited to fully create what I have been envisioning.